# coreshellmicrogel (SASfit)

This file has been automatically generated by sasfit_convert and manually edited by Wojciech Potrzebowski, ESS on 2017-12-07. The model calculates an empirical functional form for SAS data characterized by coreshellmicrogel (as defined in SASfit https://github.com/SASfit/SASfit/) Definition: ----------- This model can be used to calculate the scattering from spherical particles with a parabolic "fuzzy" interface The radial profile is given by \begin{align} \rho(r,R,\sigma) &= \begin{cases} 1 & \mbox{for } r\leq R-\sigma \\ 1-\frac{1}{2}\frac{\left((r-R)+\sigma\right)^2}{\sigma^2} & \mbox{for } R-\sigma < r \leq R \\ \frac{1}{2}\frac{\left((R-r)+\sigma\right)^2}{\sigma^2} & \mbox{for } R< r\leq R+\sigma \\ 0 & \mbox{for } r > R+\sigma \end{cases} \end{align} where $R=W+\sigma$. For such a radial profile the Fourier-transformation can be calculated analytically as \begin{multline} F(Q,R,\sigma) = \mathcal{F}[\rho(r,R,\sigma)] = \\ 4 \pi \Bigg( \left(\frac{R}{\sigma^2}+\frac{1}{\sigma}\right) \frac{\cos (q(R+\sigma))}{q^4} +   \left(\frac{R}{\sigma^2}-\frac{1}{\sigma}\right) \frac{\cos (q(R-\sigma))}{q^4} \\ -   3 \frac{\sin(q(R+\sigma))}{q^5 \sigma^2} -   3 \frac{\sin(q(R-\sigma))}{q^5 \sigma^2} -   6  \frac{\sin(qR)}{q^5 \sigma^2} -   2 R \frac{\cos(qR)}{q^4 \sigma^2} \Bigg) \end{multline} The last term in the brackets needed to be corrected compared to the referenced papers due to a typo in the original papers. The radial scattering length density profile of a fuzzy core can be for example obtained by \begin{multline} \eta_{core,sh}(r,W_\textrm{core},\sigma_\textrm{core},D,\sigma_\textrm{sh,in},W_\textrm{sh},\sigma_\textrm{sh,out}) = \eta_\textrm{sol} + (\eta_\textrm{shell}-\eta_\textrm{sol}) \rho(r,R_\textrm{out},\sigma_\textrm{out}) \\ + (\eta_\textrm{shell}-\eta_\textrm{sol}) \rho(r,R_\textrm{sh,in},\sigma_\textrm{sh,in}) + (\eta_\textrm{core} -\eta_\textrm{sol}) \rho(r,R_\textrm{core},\sigma_\textrm{core}) \end{multline} with \begin{align} R_\textrm{core} &= W_\textrm{core}+\sigma_\textrm{core} \\ R_\textrm{sh,in}&= R_\textrm{core}+D \\ R_\textrm{out}  &= R_\textrm{sh,in}+\sigma_\textrm{sh,in}+W_\textrm{sh}+\sigma_\textrm{sh,out} \end{align} In the same way also the scattering amplitude $F_\textrm{core,sh}(Q,\cdots)$ and the scattering intensity $I_\textrm{core,sh}(Q,\cdots)=|F_\textrm{core,sh}(Q,\cdots)|^2$ can be calculated: \begin{multline} F_\textrm{core,sh}(Q,W_\textrm{core},\sigma_\textrm{core},D,\sigma_\textrm{sh,in},W_\textrm{sh},\sigma_\textrm{sh,out}) = (\eta_\textrm{shell}-\eta_\textrm{sol}) F(Q,R_\textrm{out},\sigma_\textrm{out}) \\ + (\eta_\textrm{shell}-\eta_\textrm{sol}) F(Q,R_\textrm{sh,in},\sigma_\textrm{sh,in}) + (\eta_\textrm{core} -\eta_\textrm{sol}) F(Q,R_\textrm{core},\sigma_\textrm{core}) \end{multline} Parameters definition: $W_{core}$ : radius of center parts of core Wcore with homogeneous scattering length density $\sigma_{core}$ : interface half width of the core $W_{sh}$ : width of center parts of shell Wsh with homogeneous scattering length density $\sigma_{sh,in}$ : half width of the inner interface of shell $D$ : distance between interface of core and in interface of shell $\sigma_{out}$ : half width of the outer surface profile $\eta_{core}$ : scattering length density of homogeneous core part $\eta_{shell}$ : scattering length density of homogeneous shell part $\eta_{sol}$ : scattering length density of solvent References: ----------- Author(s) of the original file: src/plugins/fuzzysphere/sasfit_ff_coreshellmicrogel.c: Joachim Kohlbrecher (joachim.kohlbrecher@psi.ch) A paper about SASfit has been published in J. Appl. Cryst. (2015). 48, 1587-1598 doi:10.1107/S1600576715016544 Ingo Berndt, Jan Skov Pedersen, Peter Lindner, and Walter Richtering. Influence of shell thickness and cross-link density on the structure of temperature-sensitive poly-n isopropylacrylamidepoly-n-isopropylmethacrylamide coreshell microgels investigated by small-angle neutron scattering. Langmuir, 22(1):459-468,2006.PMID: 16378460. Ingo Berndt, Jan Skov Pedersen, and Walter Richtering. Structure of multiresponsive intelligent? coreshell microgels. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 127(26):9372-9373, 2005 PMID: 15984856 Ingo Berndt, Jan Skov Pedersen, and Walter Richtering. Temperature-sensitive coreshell microgel particles with dense shell. Angewandte Chemie, 118(11):1769-1773, 2006.

This file has been automatically generated by sasfit_convert and manually edited by Wojciech Potrzebowski, ESS on 2017-12-07.

The model calculates an empirical functional form for SAS data characterized by coreshellmicrogel (as defined in SASfit https://github.com/SASfit/SASfit/)

Definition: ----------- This model can be used to calculate the scattering from spherical particles with a parabolic "fuzzy" interface

The radial profile is given by \begin{align} \rho(r,R,\sigma) &= \begin{cases} 1 & \mbox{for } r\leq R-\sigma \\ 1-\frac{1}{2}\frac{\left((r-R)+\sigma\right)^2}{\sigma^2} & \mbox{for } R-\sigma < r \leq R \\ \frac{1}{2}\frac{\left((R-r)+\sigma\right)^2}{\sigma^2} & \mbox{for } R< r\leq R+\sigma \\ 0 & \mbox{for } r > R+\sigma \end{cases} \end{align}

where $R=W+\sigma$. For such a radial profile the Fourier-transformation can be calculated analytically as

\begin{multline} F(Q,R,\sigma) = \mathcal{F}[\rho(r,R,\sigma)] = \\ 4 \pi \Bigg( \left(\frac{R}{\sigma^2}+\frac{1}{\sigma}\right) \frac{\cos (q(R+\sigma))}{q^4} +   \left(\frac{R}{\sigma^2}-\frac{1}{\sigma}\right) \frac{\cos (q(R-\sigma))}{q^4} \\ -   3 \frac{\sin(q(R+\sigma))}{q^5 \sigma^2} -   3 \frac{\sin(q(R-\sigma))}{q^5 \sigma^2} -   6  \frac{\sin(qR)}{q^5 \sigma^2} -   2 R \frac{\cos(qR)}{q^4 \sigma^2} \Bigg) \end{multline}

The last term in the brackets needed to be corrected compared to the referenced papers due to a typo in the original papers. The radial scattering length density profile of a fuzzy core can be for example obtained by

\begin{multline} \eta_{core,sh}(r,W_\textrm{core},\sigma_\textrm{core},D,\sigma_\textrm{sh,in},W_\textrm{sh},\sigma_\textrm{sh,out}) = \eta_\textrm{sol} + (\eta_\textrm{shell}-\eta_\textrm{sol}) \rho(r,R_\textrm{out},\sigma_\textrm{out}) \\ + (\eta_\textrm{shell}-\eta_\textrm{sol}) \rho(r,R_\textrm{sh,in},\sigma_\textrm{sh,in}) + (\eta_\textrm{core} -\eta_\textrm{sol}) \rho(r,R_\textrm{core},\sigma_\textrm{core}) \end{multline}

with \begin{align} R_\textrm{core} &= W_\textrm{core}+\sigma_\textrm{core} \\ R_\textrm{sh,in}&= R_\textrm{core}+D \\ R_\textrm{out}  &= R_\textrm{sh,in}+\sigma_\textrm{sh,in}+W_\textrm{sh}+\sigma_\textrm{sh,out} \end{align}

In the same way also the scattering amplitude $F_\textrm{core,sh}(Q,\cdots)$ and the scattering intensity $I_\textrm{core,sh}(Q,\cdots)=|F_\textrm{core,sh}(Q,\cdots)|^2$ can be calculated:

\begin{multline} F_\textrm{core,sh}(Q,W_\textrm{core},\sigma_\textrm{core},D,\sigma_\textrm{sh,in},W_\textrm{sh},\sigma_\textrm{sh,out}) = (\eta_\textrm{shell}-\eta_\textrm{sol}) F(Q,R_\textrm{out},\sigma_\textrm{out}) \\ + (\eta_\textrm{shell}-\eta_\textrm{sol}) F(Q,R_\textrm{sh,in},\sigma_\textrm{sh,in}) + (\eta_\textrm{core} -\eta_\textrm{sol}) F(Q,R_\textrm{core},\sigma_\textrm{core}) \end{multline}

Parameters definition: $W_{core}$ : radius of center parts of core Wcore with homogeneous scattering length density $\sigma_{core}$ : interface half width of the core $W_{sh}$ : width of center parts of shell Wsh with homogeneous scattering length density $\sigma_{sh,in}$ : half width of the inner interface of shell $D$ : distance between interface of core and in interface of shell $\sigma_{out}$ : half width of the outer surface profile $\eta_{core}$ : scattering length density of homogeneous core part $\eta_{shell}$ : scattering length density of homogeneous shell part $\eta_{sol}$ : scattering length density of solvent

References: ----------- Author(s) of the original file: src/plugins/fuzzysphere/sasfit_ff_coreshellmicrogel.c: Joachim Kohlbrecher (joachim.kohlbrecher@psi.ch)

A paper about SASfit has been published in J. Appl. Cryst. (2015). 48, 1587-1598 doi:10.1107/S1600576715016544

Ingo Berndt, Jan Skov Pedersen, Peter Lindner, and Walter Richtering. Influence of shell thickness and cross-link density on the structure of temperature-sensitive poly-n isopropylacrylamidepoly-n-isopropylmethacrylamide coreshell microgels investigated by small-angle neutron scattering. Langmuir, 22(1):459-468,2006.PMID: 16378460.

Ingo Berndt, Jan Skov Pedersen, and Walter Richtering. Structure of multiresponsive intelligent? coreshell microgels. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 127(26):9372-9373, 2005 PMID: 15984856

Ingo Berndt, Jan Skov Pedersen, and Walter Richtering. Temperature-sensitive coreshell microgel particles with dense shell. Angewandte Chemie, 118(11):1769-1773, 2006.

# Example Data:

Source: https://marketplace.sasview.org/models/88/
